---
layout: post
title:  Windows 8.1 EventID 10016 DistributedCOM
date:   2013-12-04 00:00:00 -0500
categories: IT
---






Taken from a blog post.

<a href="http://answers.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/forum/windows8_1-winapps/weather-application/e4630db3-50c2-4cc5-9813-f089494a1145">http://answers.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/forum/windows8_1-winapps/weather-application/e4630db3-50c2-4cc5-9813-f089494a1145</a>

1. Open Regedit.
2. Go to HKEY_Classes_Root\CLSID\*CLSID*.
Note: *CLSID* stand for the ID that appears in your event viewer error. In your case, it's {C2F03A33-21F5-47FA-B4BB-156362A2F239}.
3. Right click on it then select permission.
4. Click Advance and change the owner to <b>Administrators</b>. Also click the box that will appear below the owner line.
5. Apply full control.
6. Close the tab then go to HKEY_LocalMachine\Software\Classes\AppID\*APPID*.
Note: *AppID* is the ID that appears in your event viewer. In your case it's {316CDED5-E4AE-4B15-9113-7055D84DCC97}.
7. Right click on it then select permission.
8. Click Advance and change the owner to Administrators.
9. Click the box that will appear below the owner line.
10. Click Apply and grant full control to Administrators.
11. Close all tabs and go to Administrative tool.
12. Open component services.
13. Click Computer, click my computer, then click DCOM.
14. Look for the corresponding service that appears on the error viewer.
Note: For this step, look for the one that appeared at the right panel of the RegEdit. For example, the AppID Registry (316CDED5-E4AE-4B15-9113-7055D84DCC97) contains the "Immersive Shell" Data with a (Default) as a name. Now look for "Immersive Shell".
15. Right click on it then click properties.
16. Click security tab then click <b>Customize in the Launch and Activation permissions section</b>. Click Edit. Click Add. Add <b>Local Service</b>. Then apply.
17. Tick the Local Activation box.


